Summary
Text is a common form of data, and Python comes with many helpful string methods to process the text stored in string values. 
You will make use of indexing, slicing, and string methods in almost every Python program you write.

The programs you are writing now don’t seem too sophisticated—they don’t have graphical user interfaces with images and colorful text. 
So far, you’re displaying text with print() and letting the user enter text with input(). However, 
the user can quickly enter large amounts of text through the clipboard. 
This ability provides a useful avenue for writing programs that manipulate massive amounts of text. 
These text-based programs might not have flashy windows or graphics, but they can get a lot of useful work done quickly.

Another way to manipulate large amounts of text is reading and writing files directly off the hard drive. 
You’ll learn how to do this with Python in Chapter 9.

That just about covers all the basic concepts of Python programming! You’ll continue to learn new concepts throughout the rest of this book, 
but you now know enough to start writing some useful programs that can automate tasks. 
If you’d like to see a collection of short, simple Python programs built from the basic concepts you’ve learned so far, 
check out https://github.com/asweigart/pythonstdiogames/. Try copying the source code for each program by hand, 
and then make modifications to see how they affect the behavior of the program. Once you have an understanding of how the program works,
 try re-creating the program yourself from scratch. You don’t need to re-create the source code exactly; 
 just focus on what the program does rather than how it does it.

You might not think you have enough Python knowledge to do things such as download web pages, update spreadsheets, or send text messages, 
but that’s where Python modules come in! These modules, written by other programmers, 
provide functions that make it easy for you to do all these things. So let’s learn how to write real programs to do useful automated tasks.

